---
layout: post
title: "Make It Happen!"
date: 2013-02-10 10:17:02 -0700
comments: false
---
Nobody owes you anything.

I could probably leave this post at that but it’s kind of a downer and I prefer
to try to inspire people so here it goes…

I’ve been thinking a lot about the idea of entitlement and demanding that
others make one’s situation better and I don’t agree with the idea. It is not
your employer’s responsibility to give you the tasks that you want. It is not
your spouse’s responsibility to make sure you make healthy choices for
yourself. You cannot stamp your feet and expect to be able to spend your days
in Hawaii and get well paid for it, dammit!

It is YOUR responsibility to make those things happen. Or rather it is your
responsibility to make your goals a reality. If you want a change in position
at work then make it happen. Prove to the business that the position is in your
and their best interest. Prove that you are capable of doing the job. The fact
that you have been present in a chair at the company is immaterial to whether
or not you should be at a certain position or filling a certain role.

BUT, while it is your responsibility to make those things happen it does not
mean that you can’t ask for help. I sincerely hope for your sake that you are
in a relationship with your employer/spouse/friend that they want to help you.
Your friends genuinely want to see you succeed and will likely bend over
backwards to help you if you ask. So push forward, make every attempt to make
your goal a reality, and if/when you fall short ask those around you for help.

If you find yourself in a position where everyone around you isn’t supporting
your goal there are probably three conclusions to be made: 1) you are
surrounding yourself with the wrong people, 2) your idea/goal is not aligned
with reality, or 3) people just don’t understand what you’re shooting for. Any
of these conclusions should give you pause to rethink your position.

So what about the people around you? Don’t be afraid to help someone around you
out. Pick up your neighbor when they are having trouble. Give some kind words
to your spouse when they are struggling. Next week that struggling person will
probably be you.

It is up to you to make your dreams a reality. Take responsibility but don’t be
afraid to ask for _help_. If you’ve built a good community around you, you
might be surprised at who gives you a helping hand.
