---
layout: post
title: "Who wrote this Sh*t?"
date: 2014-07-31 10:39:33 -0700
comments: false
categories: 
---
Through countless hallways in countless software shops you can hear the words,
“Who wrote this shit? This is crap. What an idiot.”

Over the past year I’ve been working on projects that were inherited from other
shops and any passerby could hear such phrases coming from my office as well.

Recently a software project that I built went through the heaviest system load
it’s ever faced at a relatively large event for our city. The event was
crowded, overloading the capacity of the venue and some portions of the system.

Soon, the frustration grew and the Twitter flood of complaints started
appearing. People were mostly just generally frustrated/excited/disappointed
about the whole situation but I spotted one particular tweet from a local
software developer wondering who wrote this shit software.

These words stung and I immediately felt the urge to step up and defend myself,
potentially starting a flamewar. Who was this guy to judge my system? He
couldn’t possibly know what the causes of the delays were! He couldn’t possibly
know the legal, physical and financial constraints the system was under!

# What a jerk!

Before I could carefully craft my 140 character pride-filled response I was
suddenly struck by the realization that I have asked nearly the same damning
question about many other products and applications in the past.

Somehow, in my mind, every piece of software I write is lovingly crafted using
the best knowledge and technique that I have at the time. I care about every
line that I write and take great pride in my work. On the other hand, that
other guy with his “shitty” system is a negligent fool who clearly doesn’t know
what he is doing and should leave software development to the people that know
better. Everyone is stupid except me and the people that I choose to look up
to.

# Stop being Arrogant

Although some people are bad at what they do or may simply not care, I have to
assume that the majority of people do care and want to do a good job. People
generally care about the work that they do and want to do a good job.

I may not like what they’ve built or how they’ve built it but I need to take
the default assumption that they did the best that they could with the
knowledge and resources that they had. From time to time this assumption will
be wrong but I’d rather be wrong assuming the best of people.

Wouldn’t it be better if we spent our time trying to teach and share our
experience with those around us rather than cut down our peers to make
ourselves feel superior? What if instead of spouting angry ill-informed
comments on the internet we took the time to simply tell those people about our
experiences and let them know what we think could be better? It’s easy to spout
off how frustrated we are and unfair the world is but what could we accomplish
if we spent that energy thinking about what could actually be changed to
improve the situation?

Thank you, internet stranger. You’ve taught me a valuable lesson and I’ve got a
framed print of your tweet to help me never forget.
